Every option that switches something on has a matching option that switches it
off again, listed alongside it below. Options are read in layers — first
tapHLE_default_options.txt, then tapHLE_options.txt, then the command line —
and a later layer wins, so the off spelling is how you countermand a setting
that an earlier layer turned on.

View options:
    --fullscreen
    --windowed
        Display the app in full screen, or in a window. The default is a
        window.

        The app's output will be scaled to fit your screen. This is independent
        of the internal resolution, so if the scale hack (see below) is not also
        in use, the result may be a bit blurry. An internal resolution larger
        than your screen's is possible, in which case the output is downscaled.

    --portrait
    --upside-down
    --landscape-left
    --landscape-right
        Changes the orientation the virtual device will have at startup.
        The default is portrait.

        --upside-down means rotate 180° from portrait.
        --landscape-left means rotate 90° counterclockwise from portrait.
        --landscape-right means rotate 90° clockwise from portrait.

        Usually apps that require landscape mode will tell tapHLE about this,
        and it will automatically rotate the window, but some apps neglect to
        do this. These options may be useful in that case.

    --landscape-native
    --no-landscape-native
        Treat the device's natural orientation as landscape. The emulated
        screen is landscape-shaped and no presentation rotation is applied.

        This is for landscape apps that render "landscape-native": they set
        their OpenGL viewport to the landscape size and draw directly, rather
        than drawing rotated content into a portrait framebuffer and relying on
        UIKit auto-rotation. Such apps come out rotated 90° and clipped with
        --landscape-left / --landscape-right, because those keep a portrait
        framebuffer and rotate at presentation. Use --landscape-native instead
        for them. It is mutually exclusive with the other orientation options.

    --scale-hack=...
        Set a scaling factor for the window. tapHLE will attempt to run the
        app with an increased internal resolution. This is a hack and there's
        no guarantee it will work correctly for all apps.

        The default is no scale hack, which is equivalent to a value of 1 (i.e.
        a scale of 1×).

        This is a natural number that is at least 1.

Device options:
    --device-family=...
        Specifies which device family should be emulated: iPhone or iPad.
        This only work if running app does support selected family
        (or the option will be ignored).

        If omitted, suitable device family would be deduced from application
        bundle itself, falling back to iPhone if needed.

        Accepted values are "iphone" and "ipad" respectively.

Game controller options:
    --deadzone=...
        Configures the size of the \"dead zone\" for analog stick inputs.

        The default value is 0.1, which means that 10% of the stick's range on
        the X and Y axes around the center position will be collapsed into a
        single point, so that movements in that range are ignored.

        This is a floating-point (decimal) number between 0 and 1.

    --disable-analog-stick-tilt-controls
    --enable-analog-stick-tilt-controls
        Disables or enables mapping of analog stick input to simulated
        rotation of the device.

        By default, if tapHLE detects a game controller, its analog sticks
        will be used for simulated accelerometer tilt controls. Set this option
        if you do not want the analog sticks to control device tilt.

        Note that tapHLE does not currently support accelerometers contained
        within game controllers.

    --x-tilt-range=...
    --y-tilt-range=...
        Set the simulated rotation range of the device axis mapped to the analog
        stick X or Y axis, or to the mouse cursor's X or Y position within the
        window (when the right mouse button is held).

        Positive X and Y are mapped to tilting the device rightward and forward
        respectively.

        By default, an analog stick's axis is mapped to a rotation range of 60°
        (30° in either direction). If you wanted a range of 90° on the X axis,
        you could use --x-tilt-range=90.

        For historical reasons, the device's X axis is mapped to the analog
        stick's Y axis and vice versa, as if the device is held in landscape.

        This is a floating-point (decimal) number of degrees, without a degree
        symbol. It may be negative.

    --x-tilt-offset=...
    --y-tilt-offset=...
        Offset the simulated angle of the device axis mapped to the analog stick
        X or Y axis, or to the mouse cursor's X or Y position within the window
        (when the right mouse button is held).

        Positive X and Y are mapped to tilting the device rightward and forward
        respectively.

        By default, the device is simulated as being level with the ground when
        the stick is in the center/neutral position. This option is intended for
        games that use a different angle relative to the ground as their neutral
        position. For example, if a game expects you to hold the device in a
        landscape orientation, with a 45° angle to the ground, you might use
        --y-tilt-offset=45.

        This is a floating-point (decimal) number of degrees, without a degree
        symbol. It may be negative.

    --button-to-touch=...
        Maps a button on a game controller to a point on the simulated touch
        screen of the device. Pressing the button will behave like touching that
        part of the screen.

        This is three parts separated by commas: the name of a button (DPadLeft,
        DPadUp, DPadRight, DPadDown, Start, LeftShoulder or Xbox-like
        A, B, X or Y), the X co-ordinate and the Y co-ordinate.
        The co-ordinates are floating-point (decimal) numbers. 0,0 is the
        top-left corner. The bottom-right corner is 320,480 if the app is in
        portrait, and 480,320 if the app is in landscape.

        For example, --button-to-touch=A,470,310 will make the A button simulate
        tapping in the bottom-right corner of the screen, for a landscape game.

        Except where specified in tapHLE_default_options.txt, this is not used
        by default. There is however a virtual cursor that is controlled by the
        right analog stick (tap/hold by pressing the stick or right shoulder
        button).

    --dpad-to-touch=...
        Maps a D-pad on a game controller to simulated finger movement within a
        region of the simulated touch screen of the device. This is useful for
        games where diagonals are used.

        This is four parts separated by commas: x,y,w,h. The co-ordinates
        are floating-point (decimal) numbers. 0,0 is the top-left corner. The
        bottom-right corner is 320,480 if the app is in portrait, and 480,320
        if the app is in landscape.

        For example, --dpad-to-touch=10,10,50,50 will simulate an 8-directional
        D-pad within a 50x50 pixel region starting at (10,10) on the screen.

        Note that this option takes precedence over any D-pad buttons defined
        with --button-to-touch.

        Except where specified in tapHLE_default_options.txt, this is not used
        by default. There is however a virtual cursor that is controlled by the
        right analog stick (tap/hold by pressing the stick or right shoulder
        button).

    --stick-to-touch=...
        Maps the left analog stick to simulated finger movement within a region
        of the simulated touch screen of the device. This is useful for games
        which use analog movement controls.

        This is four parts separated by commas: x,y,w,h. The co-ordinates
        are floating-point (decimal) numbers. 0,0 is the top-left corner. The
        bottom-right corner is 320,480 if the app is in portrait, and 480,320
        if the app is in landscape.

        For example, --stick-to-touch=10,10,100,100 will map the left analog
        stick to control a touch within a 100x100 pixel region starting at
        (10,10) on the screen.

        Except where specified in tapHLE_default_options.txt, this is not used
        by default. There is however a virtual cursor that is controlled by the
        right analog stick (tap/hold by pressing the stick or right shoulder
        button).

    --stabilize-virtual-cursor=...
        Apply motion smoothing and a sticky radius to the virtual cursor
        (controlled by the right analog stick).

        Some apps are very sensitive to small finger movements and will always
        register an attempted "tap" as a scrolling gesture if the finger moves
        even very slightly. When combined with the low precision and shakiness
        of the virtual cursor, it can be difficult to use certain apps' menus.
        This option exists to compensate for this.

        The value is two floating-point (decimal) numbers separated by a comma.
        The first is the strength of the motion smoothing, and the second is a
        radius, in pixels, within which movement of the cursor will be ignored.
        To increase these values is to trade off responsiveness and precision
        respectively. Either number can be zero if desired. Note that the effect
        of the sticky radius is *not* shown on-screen!

        For example, --stabilize-virtual-cursor=0.1,10 will smooth out movements
        such that sharp movements take about half a second to complete, while
        movements within a 10px radius will be completely ignored.

Graphics driver options:
    --gles1=...
        Force tapHLE to use a particular OpenGL ES 1.1 implementation.
        This may be useful for troubleshooting graphics driver issues.

        --gles1=gles1_on_gl2 will use tapHLE's GLES1-on-GL2 layer.
        --gles1=gles1_native will use native OpenGL ES 1.1.

        When this option isn't in use, tapHLE will try each in order and use
        the first one that works.

Debugging options:
    --disable-direct-memory-access
    --enable-direct-memory-access
        Force dynarmic to always access guest memory via the memory access
        callbacks, rather than using the fast direct access path (page tables),
        or restore the fast path. The fast path is the default.

    --gdb=...
        Starts tapHLE in debugging mode, listening for GDB remote serial
        protocol connections over TCP on the specified host and port.

        You can then connect to tapHLE with GDB and make use of its features
        to inspect memory and registers, set up software breakpoints, and
        continue or step execution.

        The host and port should be separated by a colon. The host can be a
        host name or an IP address. IPv6 addresses should be enclosed in square
        brackets, e.g. --gdb=[::1]:9001 for IPv6 loopback device port 9001.

    --no-error-popup
    --error-popup
        Disables or enables the graphical error message box. With it disabled,
        errors go to the terminal and log file only. It is enabled by default,
        except when --headless is used.

    --dump=...
        Dumps some information about app/emulator to dump file. Check
        src/options.rs:parse_dump_options for the currently available options.

    --dump-file=...
        Pick the file for information to be dumped to, relative to the user
        data directory. Defaults to {user directory}/DUMP.txt. Note that this
        file will get truncated (deleted) if it already exists!

Other options:
    --preferred-languages=...
        Specifies a list of preferred languages to be reported to the app.

        This should be one or more ISO 639 language codes (usually two letters)
        in order of preference, separated by commas. For example,
        --preferred-languages=de,ja,en means you would prefer German, or failing
        that Japanese, or failing that English.

        If this option is not specified, the list comes from your operating
        system's language settings.

        Whether and how this preference is respected, and whether any particular
        language is supported, is determined entirely by the app.

    --headless
        Run in headless mode. tapHLE will not create a window, so there will
        be no graphical output and no input. Only useful for command-line apps.
        Implies --no-error-popup.

    --args
        All arguments following this option will be passed to the app (via C's
        argc/argv) rather than processed by tapHLE. This option can't be used
        via tapHLE_options.txt or tapHLE_default_options.txt.

    --print-fps
    --no-print-fps
        Logs the current framerate (FPS) to the console once per second, or
        stops doing so.

    --fps-limit=...
        Modify or disable the framerate (FPS) limit.

        By default, tapHLE limits the framerate of an app to 60fps, because
        this is required for accurate emulation. Some apps can however run
        correctly at a higher framerate than normal.

        This is either 'off', to disable the framerate limit, or otherwise
        a floating-point (decimal) number of frames per second.

        Note that many apps have an internal timer that determines how often
        they present frames; increasing the limit will not increase their
        framerate, but may make it less consistent.

    --force-composition
    --no-force-composition
        Forces presentation of renderbuffer as if no fullscreen EAGL layer is
        present, i.e. renderbuffer will go through the compositor.

        Enabling this option may solve some rendering issues, but implies
        a performance hit which is undesirable in most of the cases.

    --allow-network-access
    --deny-network-access
        Allow or forbid apps running in tapHLE accessing the Internet and the
        local network. Access is forbidden by default.

    --ignore-gl-errors
    --report-gl-errors
        Ignore host OpenGL errors as queried by glGetError function.
        This only affects return value of glGetError as seen by the guest
        and nothing else. Should be enabled only for apps which really
        need this behaviour.

    --zero-stack-after-guest-to-host-call=<bytes>
        After a guest-to-host call returns, zero out the given number of
        bytes immediately below the current stack pointer (i.e. the unused
        scratch region of the guest's full-descending stack).
        This option exists because a guest-to-host call leaves that region
        untouched, whereas a real call on iOS could leave it in a "dirty"
        state. This can make a difference for apps that store data on the
        stack and branch based on the stack's content. There is normally
        no reason to enable this option. The number of bytes must be
        chosen carefully on a per-app basis.
